Employee Handbook

Employee Handbook
Table of Contents

Introduction
2

Company Culture And Employment Policies
3

Workplace Policies
5

Employee Code Of Conduct
7

Employee Compensation And Development
10

Employee Benefits And Perquisites
12

Working Hours And Time-off Policies
16

Leaving The Organization
18

Introduction
Welcome aboard! We're excited to have you as part of the family. Thank you for joining us in building a meaningful, inclusive, and productive workplace.

At , we abide by these key values:

Explanation of Values

This handbook will help you understand how we work, what we value, and how to navigate our policies and procedures. It will support your growth and development, so please take the time to read it carefully.

How it all began

was founded in 2008 with just 15 employees. Today, we're a growing organization making an impact in Web Development. Our story has been shaped by our wonderful employees, who continue to impact each step of our journey.

Our vision

We want to develop apps and websites for many companies, bringing quality to websites across many fields, and revolutionize web development across the board, creating a meaningful impact for businesses.


Company culture and policies
This section covers key aspects of our company's culture and how you can best thrive within it.

Equal opportunity employment

We are proud to be an equal opportunity employer and do not discriminate on the basis of religion, race, caste, gender, marital status, ethnicity, sexual orientation, or any other characteristic protected by law. We are committed to creating a workplace where all employees treat each other with respect and professionalism.

We ensure:

Reasonable accommodations for employees with disabilities
Regular diversity and inclusion awareness sessions and inclusive hiring practices
Fair, merit-based promotions
If you face or witness any form of discrimination, please report it immediately to HR or your manager. You will be protected against any potential retaliation.

Employment types

Full-time: [40 hours per week, Monday to Friday]
Part-time: [20 hours per week, with a flexible schedule based on team and project needs]
Contractual: [Hours and terms defined in the contract]
Freelancing: [Work on a project basis, with terms outlined in their respective contracts ]
Attendance

At , we expect our employees to make use of flexible attendance strategies responsibly. While we understand that employees have a life outside of their work, consistent attendance is required to carry out everyday responsibilities, avoid delays, and ensure productive collaboration.

What we expect

Be present: Whether you're working from the office, remotely, or in a hybrid setup, we expect you to be fully present during your working hours.
Core hours and availability: Teams may follow specific core working hours to ensure team collaboration. Your manager will keep you informed about these expectations.]
Log your time: Use our attendance system to log in and out daily. This helps us stay compliant and ensure proper workforce planning.
We support flexibility

We understand that there may be days when you need to adjust your start time, work from home, or take leave. Please keep your manager and team informed so we can plan accordingly.

[In case of absence:]

[Inform your manager as early as possible.]
[Update your attendance record with the appropriate leave or time-off request.]
[For unexpected absences, please send a follow-up message once you’re back.]
Recruitment and selection process

At , employees are our biggest assets, and their success starts with how we hire. We’re committed to building a diverse, talented team through a fair and transparent recruitment process.

[What we aim for:]

[Merit-first approach: We evaluate candidates solely based on their skills, talent, and cultural alignment.]
[Diversity matters: We actively seek to hire candidates with different backgrounds, perspectives, and experiences.]
[Candidate experience: We aim to create a respectful and smooth recruitment journey for every candidate, whether they’re selected or not.]
[Our hiring process]

[Needs assessment: The hiring team performs a skill gap analysis to identify the role and skills needed.]
[Job posting: Roles are published internally and externally with clear job descriptions.]
[Screening and interviews: Shortlisted candidates go through structured and objective interviews.]
[Offer and onboarding: Selected candidates receive a formal offer and are onboarded by our HR team.]
[Internal hiring and referrals]

[Internal mobility: Employees may apply for open roles within the company.]
[Referral program: Employees can refer their friends, family, and acquaintances.]
Background verification

As part of our hiring process, conducts background verification checks to ensure the authenticity of a candidate’s education, employment history, and identity. These checks are carried out through trusted third-party agencies in compliance with local laws and data privacy regulations. Employment is subject to successful completion only when the verification process is finished without any glitches.

Workplace policies
Professionalism and confidentiality

We expect all our employees to treat company data with professionalism and confidentiality. This applies to:

Personal and financial data.
Business strategies and customer information
Legal or internal documents marked as confidential
You may be asked to sign a non-disclosure agreement as part of your commitment to safeguarding sensitive information. Data breaches will lead to strict disciplinary action, including termination.

How to handle confidential information:

Always maintain strict security over data.
Only take company documents off-site when essential and authorized.
Never leave printed or copied materials unattended, and securely shred documents you don't need.
Don't use company information for personal purposes.
Keep all company information confidential and never share it with individuals outside the organization.
Don't replicate official documents or store them on unsecured devices.
Workplace harassment and misconduct

We strive to create an environment where employees respect each other and work together without fear of harassment. Every employee must feel safe in the workplace. No form of harassment—whether verbal, sexual, physical, or psychological—will be tolerated.

What is considered harassment?

Harassment may include, but is not limited to:

Unwelcome jokes, comments, or gestures
Offensive or suggestive language
Inappropriate physical contact
Bullying, intimidation, or threats
Repeated unwanted advances or attention
Any form of discrimination related to gender, race, age, religion, sexual orientation, or disability
Sexual harassment is treated as a serious offense. Any employee found guilty of such behavior will face strict disciplinary action, up to and including termination. Violence or threats against individuals or property are also considered serious violations and will result in immediate action, which may include termination.

Any employee who has been subject to workplace harassment will receive the following support from the organization:

Access to in-house counseling
Access to a committee that provides a safe, confidential space to share and file concerns
Assistance in a temporary or permanent role change, if needed
A fair and thorough investigation process
If you are experiencing stress or negative feelings toward your colleagues, reach out to our in-house therapist at Main Building of ImagineCompanyor speak with your manager.

Workplace safety

We are committed to providing a safe and hazard-free environment for our employees.

To ensure this, we take many proactive measures, such as creating contingency plans for emergency management.

What are our proactive measures?

[Necessary maintenance and regular inspection of safety equipment]
[Routine fire and evacuation drills]
[Clearly marked emergency exits on every floor]
[Mandatory use of protective gear in hazardous work zones]
[Training programs to educate employees on safety protocols and first aid]
[Readily available emergency contact numbers and response kits]
[Periodic risk assessments and quick resolution of identified issues]
We also ensure that our emergency management plans are always in place and up to date.

[These include:]

[Round-the-clock inspection and repair of any leakage or repairs]
[Emergency exit plans on every floor]
[Regular fire drills]
Prohibited activities

Smoking, drug use, and the consumption of alcohol are strictly prohibited in the office as per applicable laws and company policies. Any employee found using any of these or under the influence will be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination.

Smoking is permitted in designated smoking areas only. Please ensure to extinguish the cigarette before re-entering the office premises.

If a prescription drug that you are using is affecting your work, please inform your manager or HR immediately.

Alcohol and drug dependency are serious health issues, and we are committed to helping any employee who is facing addiction. If you are concerned about your use of alcohol or any mood-altering substances, please arrange a confidential consultation with HR.

Employee code of conduct
Dress Code

[All employees are expected to wear professional attire while in the office or representing the company. Hairstyles and accessories worn for religious or cultural reasons are fully respected and allowed.]

Internet and social media

[During work hours, employees should not use the internet or social media for personal reasons. All online activities should be work-related.]

[Posting updates to social media is allowed only for business purposes and requires prior approval from your manager. For more details, please refer to the Social Media Policy.]

Phone usage

[Usage of the fixed line connection is only for official purposes and can occasionally be used for personal emergencies.]

[Cell phone usage is allowed to connect with family during working hours, so as long as personal phone calls do not disrupt the work environment and do not interfere with your own work.]

Company email

Each employee is issued with a work email address. Company email accounts may be used for personal reasons, so as long as employees do not use them for spam.

Employee relationships

Friendship among teammates that boosts team work and productivity is encouraged.

Romantic relationships between peers are not prohibited, so as long as employees in a relationship are not in the same report line. These employees must ensure that no personal discussions take place at work and that their relationship does not affect productivity. Employees must promptly disclose any conflicts of interest to their managers or HR.

Relatives at work

You may wish to refer your friends and family members for job openings, or you might already have a spouse, relatives, or friends working here. We have found that some of our best employees are referrals. To avoid conflicts of interest, individuals with pre-existing relationships may not work in the same report line and must be recused from one another's personnel decisions. Please disclose any personal relationships you have with other employees to prevent conflicts of interest.

Some restrictions we follow when considering a relative or spouse for a role:

You cannot report to your relative or spouse.
You cannot be part of the team that hires your relative or spouse.
If you enter into a relationship with your reporting manager, one of you will be moved to another team.
[Visitors at work]

[You may want to bring a relative to show them around our office. While we allow this, please ensure you get prior approval from the security team and your manager, and have your visitor sign in and wear a visitor badge (if applicable). Do not leave your visitor unattended at any time, and please remind them that we do not allow photography or any other means of recording in the office.]

Conflicts of interest

If you find yourself in a situation where your self-interest conflicts with that of the organization, it is best to reach out to your manager or HR for assistance.

Some instances that we consider conflicts of interest:

Using company resources to further personal business goals
Using connections established through the organization for personal gain
Engaging in activities that support the growth of competitor firms
Committing unethical actions that may cause damage to the organization's reputation, such as taking bribes or asking for personal favors
If you are found guilty of furthering your own interests above those of the organization, you may face disciplinary action, up to and including termination.

Solicitation and distribution

Solicitation, the act of offering or attempting to purchase goods or services, is strictly prohibited in the workplace, except in certain small-scale situations, such as charitable events.

Similarly, distributing literature for political or commercial purposes is not allowed.

Employee compensation and development
Salary

Employees are paid on a monthly basis, with payments made on the last working day of the month. Payouts are credited directly to the bank account registered with our Payroll team. Payslips can be accessed securely via the internal HR portal. Your salary may include fixed and variable components, as applicable to your role and performance.

Government stipulated tax deductions, such as income tax and other statutory contributions, will be applied to the payout before it is disbursed.

If you find any discrepancy in your payslip or the credited amount, please contact the Payroll team atImagineCompanyPayroll@IC.com. We'll ensure it's addressed promptly.

Overtime

While we prioritize work-life balance, there may be instances when employees need to work overtime to meet critical deadlines or business needs. Your overtime hours should be approved by your manager. Eligible employees will be compensated at [1.5 times their regular hourly pay] for every approved overtime hour worked. We also ensure that employees do not work overtime for [more than 10 hours] overall per pay period, to prevent exhaustion and job burnout. If you have any questions about your eligibility or want to know how overtime is calculated, please contact the HR or payroll team.

Performance management

We at ImagineCompany make it a point to review employee performance three months. Our method of evaluation involves board meetings. Our appraisals are designed to be fair and objective.

These appraisals are an opportunity to focus on employee progress, align on goals, and identify avenues for further development. Through them, managers can understand areas of high performance and areas where support is required.

Employees who have shown considerable improvement may be rewarded through salary hikes, bonuses, and promotions.
Employees who require more attention may be asked to participate in a performance improvement plan (PIP).
How should managers contribute?

To make performance reviews useful and meaningful, managers are expected to:

Set clear goals or key result areas (KRAs) for employees so that they are fully aware of how they will be evaluated.
Offer continuous feedback to ensure the employee's continuous growth.
Keep track of major employee milestones and achievements to inform raise decisions and provide positive feedback.
Training and development

At ImagineCompany, we believe that when our employees grow, so does our organization. That's why we strive to offer continuous learning and development opportunities for all our employees.

Our commitment to learning:

[We have dedicated in-house and external trainers to conduct training programs for our employees. They will share the training calendar with employees annually.]
[We organize periodic technical, behavioral, and soft skill training programs across teams.]
[We offer certifications for successful training completion to motivate employees.]
[We include active participation and completion of training programs as a metric while evaluating the employee's performance.]
[We have online courses as part of the training curriculum.]
[We encourage on-the-job learning and real-time application.]
[We facilitate structured mentorship programs to help new hires settle in and grow.]
[Company-sponsored education and relocation]

[The company may pay for your higher education or relocation for official purposes in select cases, based on role needs and leadership approval. In such cases, you must stay with the company for at least the next [X months/years ] after the sponsored activity. If you leave before that period, you will have to repay the expenses in part or fully, based on the terms outlined in the sponsorship agreement.]

Employee benefits and perks
Employee health

We believe that a thriving workplace begins with healthy, supported employees. We deeply care about the well-being of every employee and encourage healthy lifestyles. To achieve this, we provide employee group insurance for all full-time employees.

[Wellness Resources]

We encourage you to prioritize your well-being and take advantage of the support available.

Worker's compensation

We abide by the worker's compensation policy of Ernakulam. If an employee is injured while at work or performing a duty for work, they will be compensated through wage replacement, medical care, and rehabilitation expenses, wherever applicable by law. Any employee who is injured at work must seek the help of HR immediately to assure proper compensation.

[Alternate working options]

[We acknowledge that flexibility is necessary to strike a balance between professional and personal responsibilities. Employees who need to stay at home due to an illness, injury, or to take care of a sick relative can choose to do so, so as long as they can conduct all their work-related responsibilities during this time.]

[Employees can also work from home if there is a nationally declared lockdown or extremely poor weather conditions.]

[Please talk to your manager in advance if you are going to work from home or work remotely. An employee can work from home for a maximum of 5 days per week, and work remotely for a maximum of [X days/weeks], unless otherwise approved.]

Work-related expenses

ImagineCompany takes care of all expenses related to company meetings, travel, or relocation. Accommodation and tickets are booked and paid for by the company directly, and other expenses that the employee may bear temporarily, such as for transportation and food, will also be reimbursed.

Bills and receipts are to be submitted for approval to your manager. Upon approval, you will receive your reimbursement within 5 days.

Please note that any personal expenses during official travel will not be reimbursed. For instance, while your cab fare to the client's office location will be covered, the entry fee for an amusement park or personal sightseeing will not.

Company-provided devices and other equipments

Based on your role, you may receive a [company laptop, mobile device, car, and other accessories]. While you may use these as needed to increase your productivity, you may not sell them, as they belong to the company. Please handle these items with care and caution.

Any equipment that is damaged or requires repair due to normal wear-and-tear or malfunction will be replaced as soon as possible. Please report this to your manager and the admin team for assistance.

Please refer to these policies for more information.

[Company Car Policy]
[Cell Phone Policy]
[Other Policies]
If an item is misplaced or stolen, please report it to HR immediately.

Company parking space

An employee who is driving their personal vehicle to work is entitled to use the company's parking lot. Note that priority is given to employees with disabilities and employees with company cars.

Please park and drive responsibly to and from the parking lot to ensure the safety of yourself and others. Any employees who are found parking in unauthorized parking spaces will receive a warning letter. Continued violation will lead to retraction of the parking space.

Working hours and time-off policies
Our standard office hours are [9 am to 6 pm], [Monday through Friday]. [Due to our global presence, our operations run 24/7 across multiple shifts.]

Your working hours will be based on your department and assigned role. Please check with your manager for your official schedule.

Paid time-off

We at ImagineCompany believe that employees require adequate rest to be productive and healthy. That's why all our employees are entitled to3 days of paid time-off from the day of their joining. [You can carry forward your time-off days to succeeding months, but they have to be used within the same calendar year. You will receive an additional day for every year of service with our organization.]

Inform your manager in advance when you plan to take your time-off and apply for it in the HRMS.

Sick leave

Employees will receive 5 days of sick leave each year. If you have a contagious flu or disease, we urge you to take sick leave until you recover. Please keep your manager informed and apply for sick leave in the HRMS. If you take more than3 consecutive days of sick leave, we may request a doctor's note as proof of illness and for insurance coverage.

Your health always comes first. Please make use of this leave type to rest and recover.

[Bereavement leave]

[In the event of the loss of a loved one, we provide [X days/weeks] to grieve, attend funeral services, and support your family.]

[Please inform your manager or HR and take the time you need.]

Maternity and paternity leave

Employees are eligible for 2 weeks of paid maternity leave, starting before or after your due date. In case of complications, 1 weeks of unpaid leave will be granted. Reach out to HR as soon as possible to make arrangements.

Expecting fathers are eligible for 2 weeks of paternity leave to support their partners and care for their newborn.

If you are expecting a child, through childbirth or adoption, please inform your manager at least [2 months] in advance.

[How we help you transition back to work after your paternity and maternity leave:]

[Flexible working hours]
[In-house daycare]
[Lactation rooms]
Voting leave

We encourage civic participation. Employees can take up to one day off to cast their vote during elections.


Holidays

We observe the following holidays:

[Holiday List]

If a holiday falls on a weekend, either Monday or Friday will be considered a holiday. Please check our HRIS for updates on holidays.

Leaving the organization
Progressive discipline policy

If an employee is found guilty of misconduct, appropriate steps will be taken to ensure that the action is not repeated. The severity of the steps taken will depend on the seriousness of the misconduct. After a series of meetings and warnings, if the employee's behavior does not show any change, they will be terminated at the sole discretion of the company. If the misconduct is of a serious nature, such as a sexual misbehavior, termination will be the only course of action.

Resignation

When an employee wishes to leave the organization, we consider it voluntary resignation. Unnotified absences beyond 5 days will be considered voluntary resignation. Please inform us of your resignation at least two weeks in advance. This gives us time to complete relieving formalities and ensure business continues without any disruptions. [For employees serving their probation period, the notice period is usually seven days; for confirmed employees, the notice period is usually 30 days.]

While a verbal resignation is also appreciated, we urge you to send a formal email to your manager, who will send it to HR to work on the next steps.

Termination

Terminating an employee is a serious step that is considered a last resort, usually during cases of grave misconduct. This handbook highlights behaviors or instances that could lead to termination.

In the event of layoffs due to business downturns or the cessation of operations, the company will provide severance packages and, if possible, offer support in finding another job.

If you are a manager, use discretion and consult HR before initiating any termination. Any wrongful motive on your part will be treated seriously.

References

When an employee leaves the organization, they may request a reference that can help in securing another job. It will be at the manager's discretion whether to provide the reference or not.

Employee acknowledgement

Please acknowledge that you have fully read and understood our company's terms and policies.

Employee name: [Mike]

Job title: [Senior web developer]

Date: [25.12.2025]

Signature: [Sandra - (Senior HR Manager)]
